Docs: Correlation analysis (#8511)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/product-analytics/correlation.mdx

  enterprise: full
---

Correlation analysis is a feature within [funnels](/docs/product-analytics/funnels) that **automatically** highlights significant factors impacting conversion rate.

Funnels have the ability to directly compare conversion rates of users for a specific property via the breakdown feature, but this requires you to know which property to investigate. If you're not certain, correlation analysis highlights significant events or properties for you. 

> As an example, the below insight shows that desktop users were `1.3x more likely` to convert than mobile or tablet users. Similarly, we also seee that users who completed the `uploaded_cv_for_review` event were `8.0x more likely` to convert.

Reviewer: I think this can be slightly confusing, see: https://posthog.slack.com/archives/C0368RPHLQH/p1711479367617279
```suggestion
As an example, the below insight shows that desktop users were `1.3x more likely` to convert than mobile or tablet users. We also see that users who completed the `uploaded_cv_for_review` event while active in the funnel were `8.0x more likely` to convert.
```

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight = {"https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1716387676/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-05-22_at_3.20.17_PM.png"} 
    imageDark = {"https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1716387676/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-05-22_at_3.20.33_PM.png"}
    classes="rounded"
    alt= "Example of a correlation analysis insight"
/>

> It's important to remember that the accuracy any correlation is dependent on the sample size. If you've only got a handful of users for a specific correlation, then it's likely that it will *not* be useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to remember that the accuracy of any correlation depends on the sample size. If you've only got a handful of users for a specific correlation, then it's likely that it will *not* be accurate.
```

## How to create a correlation analysis

In any funnel insight, scroll to the **Correlation analysis** section and click the **Load results** or **Select properties** buttons.

Once you've created a correlation, you can also create a [cohort](/docs/data/cohorts) of users in an analysis by clicking the numbers in the **Completed** or **Dropoff** columns and then the **Save as cohort** button in the modal.

> ## Excluding events or properties

Reviewer: Should we also mention "correlation details" here?

![CleanShot 2024-05-22 at 11 44 43@2x](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/assets/34755028/ea496b63-dd39-43ff-8018-67965416d196)

Author: I thought about it, but I think the feature is mostly self-explanatory. I dont think we need to documents every single bit of functionality

> You have better context on your product and what could be relevant signal or not. There will be some events and/or properties that are trivial or don't actually provide an actionable insight. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have better context on your product and what could be relevant signal or not. There will be some events and/or properties that are trivial or don't provide an actionable insight. 
```

To remove these from your correlation insights, click the **...** (more options) buttons and then **Exclude event from project**.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight = {"https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1716389459/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-05-22_at_3.50.44_PM.png"} 
    imageDark = {"https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1716389459/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-05-22_at_3.50.00_PM.png"}
    classes="rounded"
    alt= "How to hide correlations"
/>

> 
> ### Further reading
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Tutorial: How to correlate Sentry errors with PostHog data](/tutorials/sentry-plugin-tutorial)

Reviewer: This tutorial doesn't really have to do much with correlation analysis, it just has "correlate" in its name.
```suggestion
```
